
“After yesterday's investigation, I have to mention how vpk stood fearless and in a mocking way.

When he was walking, he was repeatedly staring angrily at ettappan nayakkan and sivagiri king who helped banner man to capture VPK. While VPK was walking with bravery and heroism, he was staring at the people who were standing at the left and right side of him.

While walking to the area where he was to be executed. I got the news of how VPK was showing concern for his brother. After he reached the tree, he also showed concern about leaving his fort. He also mentioned how he would be happy if he died while defending his fort. “-From this, we can learn about the mental state of VPK.

At oct 5th, 1799 he was thrown into a building in kayattharu till oct 16 after coming as a prisoner from madurai. 

After 16 days, the english men were telling VPK that if he would pay money to the english, paanjalankuricchi would be revived. But VPK told boldly that “Being dead is greater than living by paying to the english men”.

In october 16, 1799 there was a horse army under the leadership of turner and there was a group of soldiers under the leadership of douglas. Then banner man started his investigation with VPK and listed all the crimes committed by VPK.
Crime of not paying the money
Crime of not properly respecting Jakson Dhurai during their meeting
Crime of killing lieutenant Clark
Crime of refusing to meet Loosingtan and delaying the meeting
Crime of not coming to the terms of the british and causing them soldier loss and weapon loss

Like this he kept on listing all the crimes committed by VPK. Then VPK told that “these are not crimes in my eyes. Me not paying money to you , a foreigner is the right thing done by me to preserve the culture of this soil. You have listed all the other crimes based on this.  If the root crime is wrong, everything else is wrong. Anyways im done with this investigation. Now fulfil your wish of hanging me.”. The investigation then ended. Banner man announced his final decision of hanging VPK.

Banner man gave his solution to the dispute between him and VPK. VPK was token to the tree in which he was going to be hanged. One of the english hys climbed the tree and hung the rope while other one placed a ladder near the gallows rope. VPK climbed through the ladder, hung himself and kicked the ladder.The soul of VPK went away from his lifeless body.

Banner man wanted everyone to see this hence he hung the lifeless body of VPK in the tree for 2 hours.
When oomaithurai burned VPK’s body as part of the ritual, the flames in itself cried after touching VPK’s body.(not even kidding this was the thing written in book kill me now:((( )
After VPK died, the 42 forts in thirunelveli were destoyed including panjalankuricchi’s fort.

Vijay rangunathan thondaiman was rewarded by the english for helping the english to capture VPK. They declared that he and pudhukottai has to never pay money to the english ever again. The successors of Vijay can rule without any hindrance. 

Also the english rewarded ettappan the village “sivanyanapuram”  for his contribution in the capture of VPK. The 79 villages present in paanjalankuricchi was merged with ettaiyapuram. The english gave rewards to all those who helped the english to capture VPK. VPk was born in 3.1.2760 and died on 16.10.1799. He lived for 39 years. It has been 204 years since he passed away and many more to come. Wherever there is a freedom battle, he will be remembered.



